CHECKLIST OF MANDATORY LABEL INFORMATION | DISTILLED SPIRITS
This guidance lists the mandatory information that TTB reviews on every distilled spirits label and certificate of
label approval application and includes a checklist to help prevent common errors. This document does not
provide comprehensive labeling guidance. Distilled spirits for which a certificate of label approval is required
must be labeled in compliance with all applicable requirements in 27 CFR part 5 and 27 CFR part 16.
Mandatory Information that Must Appear in the Same Field of Vision
A label or labels bearing the brand name, alcohol content, and class/type designation must appear in the same field of
vision. The same field of vision means a single side of a container (for a cylindrical container, a side is 40 percent of the
circumference) where all of the pieces of information can be viewed simultaneously without the need to turn the container.
(See full definition in 27 CFR 5.63.)
Mandatory Item and
Description
Regulatory
Citation Checklist
Brand Name
Name under which the
product will be sold.
27 CFR 5.64
 Does the brand name appear in the same field of vision with
the alcohol content and the class and type designation?
 Does it match the entry in the “Brand Name” field on the
application?
Designation:
Class/Type Designation
Examples: “Vodka,”
“Chocolate Flavored
Brandy,” “Imitation Liqueur”;
OR Designated in
Accordance with
Trade/Consumer
Understanding:
Example: “Ouzo”;
OR Distinctive/Fanciful
Name Together with
Statement of Composition
A distinctive or fanciful
name, together with a
truthful and adequate
statement of the
composition of the product.
27 CFR 5.165
27 CFR 5.141
 Does the designation appear in the same field of vision with
the brand name and alcohol content??
 If the designation is a class or type, is it consistent with a
class and type listed in the regulations?
 Is the designation separate and apart from all other
information?
 Is it spelled correctly?
 Is this a product that requires a formula? (Check distilled
spirits formula requirements here.)
☐ If yes, is any required statement of composition either
the same as (or more specific than) the general
suggested statement on the approved formula (under
Determination and Labeling Instructions)?
☐ Has the approved formula number been selected on
the application?
☐ Are this and other labels on the container free from conflicting
or inconsistent designations? (e.g., “vodka with natural flavors”
vs. “vodka”)
Alcohol Content
Example: “Alcohol __ % by
volume”
27 CFR 5.65
☐ Is the alcohol content stated in the same field of vision with
the brand name and the class and type designation??
☐ Are the format and abbreviations acceptable? You may use:
“Alc.”, “Alc”, “Vol.”, “Vol”, or “%”.
Note: The label may state the alcohol content in degrees of
proof but this statement must be adequately distinguished from
the mandatory statement of alcohol content as a percentage by
volume (for example, it may appear in parentheses or brackets),
and as long as it appears in the same field of vision as the
mandatory statement of alcohol content as a percentage of
alcohol by volume.
Mandatory information that may appear on ANY Label
Mandatory Item and
Description
Regulatory
Citation Checklist
Net Contents
Volume of distilled spirits in
container.
27 CFR 5.70
27 CFR 5.203
 Is the net contents statement present on the label, or is it
blown into or otherwise marked on the container?
 Are the format and abbreviations acceptable (e.g. 500 mL or
1.5 L)?
 Does it meet an approved standard of fill? In general, metric
standards of fill must be used.
Name and Address
The name (or trade name)
and address (city and
state) as listed on your
permit.
27 CFR 5.66
27 CFR 5.67
27 CFR 5.68
☐ Is the name and address on the label?
☐ Does the name and address immediately follow a phrase
such as "Bottled By” or “Imported By”, respectively, with no
intervening text? (For other phrases that may be used, see 27
CFR 5.66.)
Mandatory information that may appear on ANY label (continued)
Mandatory Item and
Description
Regulatory
Citation Checklist
Health Warning Statement
Statement must appear
exactly as prescribed in
the regulations.
27 CFR Part 16
☐ Is the statement on the label?
☐ Does it match the exact wording and punctuation?
☐ Are the words “GOVERNMENT WARNING” in capital letters
and bold type?
☐ Are the “S” in Surgeon and “G” in General capitalized?
☐ Does it appear as one statement?
☐ Is it separate and apart from other information on the label?
Country of Origin
Imported distilled spirits
only. Required by U.S.
Customs and Border
Protection (CBP).
19 CFR 134.11
27 CFR 5.69
☐ Is the country of origin statement on the label?
☐ Does the country of origin statement comply with CBP
regulations? NOTE: Questions about the appropriate country
of origin should be directed to CBP.
Sulfite Declaration
Example: “Contains
Sulfites”
27 CFR
5.63(c)(7)
Required if the product has 10 ppm or more (total) sulfur
dioxide.
☐ Is a sulfite declaration required on the label?
Presence of Coloring
Materials
Example: “Colored With
Caramel”; or “Artificially
Colored”
27 CFR
5.63(c)(6)
Required when certain coloring materials have been used.
☐ Does the label state the specific coloring material, "artificially
colored," or "certified color added," as appropriate, as part of a
statement of composition or a separate disclosure? See below
for Yellow #5, Cochineal Extract, or Carmine.
FD&C Yellow #5
Example: “Contains FD&C
Yellow #5”
27 CFR
5.63(c)(5)
Mandatory ONLY if FD&C Yellow #5 is used in the distilled spirit
– this coloring material must be specifically disclosed.
☐ Is the specific disclosure statement on the label, either as
part of a statement of composition or a separate disclosure?
Cochineal Extract or
Carmine
Example: “Contains
Carmine:”
27 CFR
5.63(c)(6)
Mandatory ONLY if cochineal extract or carmine is used in the
distilled spirit – these coloring materials must be specifically
disclosed.
☐ Is the specific disclosure statement on the label, either as
part of a statement of composition or a separate disclosure?
Treatment with Wood 27 CFR 5.73
Required for whisky and brandy treated with wood other than
through contact with oak containers, except for brandy treated
with an infusion of oak chips that are harmless coloring,
flavoring, or blending materials and do not exceed 2.5% by
volume of the finished brandy.
☐ Does the label state “Colored and flavored with wood____”
(chips, slabs, extracts, as appropriate)?
Commodity Statements
(Presence of Neutral
Spirits)
Example: “50% Neutral
Spirits Distilled From Corn”
27 CFR 5.71 For distilled spirits (other than cordials, liqueurs, and specialties)
produced by blending or rectification, if neutral spirits have been
used in the production, a statement disclosing the percentage of
neutral spirits and the commodity from which distilled. ☐ Is the
statement on the label?
Commodity Statement
(Neutral Spirits or Gin)
Example: “Distilled from
Potato”
27 CFR 5.71
In the case of neutral spirits or of gin produced by a process of
continuous distillation, a statement of the commodity from which
the neutral spirits were distilled.
☐ Is the statement on the label?
State of Distillation
Example: “Distilled in Idaho”
or “Idaho Corn Whisky”
27 CFR 5.66(f) For certain types of whisky produced in the United States, the
State of distillation must be shown on the label if the whisky is
not distilled in the State given in the address on the label.
☐ Is a State of distillation required on the label?
Mandatory information that may appear on ANY label (continued)
Mandatory Item and
Description
Regulatory
Citation Checklist
Statement of Age
Example: “3 Years Old,” or
“Aged not less than 6
months”
27 CFR 5.74
See also: FAQ
S11
Mandatory for:
 Whisky aged less than 4 years
 Grape lees, grape pomace, or grape marc brandy aged
less than two years.
 Distilled spirits labeled with certain miscellaneous age
references or representations
 Distilled spirits labeled with a distillation date
☐ Is the statement on the label?
☐ Is it in an approved format? The following formats are
acceptable: “_____ years old”; “____ months old”; “Aged _____
years”; “Aged at least ____ years”; “Aged a minimum of ____
months”; “Over ____ years old”; “Aged not less than ____
years”; “___% whisk
