Grape Variety Designations on American Wine Labels
Using a grape variety name on an American wine label is not mandatory, but many wineries and bottlers choose to show this information. We designed this web page to help you understand the rules. Here you will find more information on:

Requirements for Use   /  Process for Approval  /  Rulemaking  /  Currently Approved Grape Variety Names  /  Completed Rulemaking

Use of grape variety names on wine labels
You can find the rules for varietal (grape type) labeling in our regulations at 27 CFR 4.23. In general:

You may only use grape variety names approved by TTB.
Paragraph (e) of § 4.23 states that only a grape variety name approved by the TTB Administrator may be used as a type designation for an American wine. It also states that the list of approved grape variety names appears in subpart J, Grape Variety Designations on American Wine Labels, of part 4. The list of grape variety names, and their synonyms, approved for use as type designations for American wines appears within subpart J in 27 CFR 4.91. Alternative grape variety names temporarily authorized for use are listed in 27 CFR 4.92.

If you use a grape varietal name, an appellation of origin must also appear on the label.
Paragraph (a) of § 4.23 states that the names of one or more grape varieties may be used as the type designation of a grape wine only if the wine is labeled with an appellation of origin. For the rules governing labeling with an appellation of origin, see 27 CFR 4.25.

The wine must be made from a minimum percentage of the grape varietal.
Under § 4.23(b), you may use the name of a single grape variety on a label as the type designation of a wine if :
75 percent or more of the wine is made from the named grape variety, with exceptions provided in § 4.23(c); and
the entire 75 percent of the named grape variety was grown in the labeled appellation of origin.
Section § 4.23(c) provides two exceptions from the 75 percent rule:
Wine made from any Vitis labrusca variety may use the name of the grape variety on the label if:
51 percent or more of the wine is made from the named grape variety; and
the entire qualifying percentage of the named grape variety was grown in the labeled appellation of origin.
Wine made from any grape variety that the appropriate TTB officer finds to be too strongly flavored at the 75 percent minimum may be labeled with the grape variety if:
51 percent or more of the wine is made from the named grape variety; and
the entire qualifying percentage of the named grape variety was grown in the labeled appellation of origin.
In either exception from the 75 percent rule, the statement "contains not less than 51% (name of variety)" must be shown on either the brand label, back label, or separate strip label.

You may use two or more grape varietal names on the label.
Under § 4.23(d), you may use two or more grape variety names as the type designation of a wine if:
 
all the grapes used to make the wine are of the labeled varieties; and
the percentage of the wine derived from each grape variety is shown on the label. (Note: There is a tolerance for +/– 2% error.)
If the wine is labeled with a multistate or multicounty appellation of origin, the percentage of wine derived from each variety from each county or state must be shown on the label.

Return to top

Process for approval of grape variety names
You can find the rules for requesting approval of new grape variety names for the designation of American wines in our regulations at 27 CFR 4.93.

Who may request approval – 27 CFR 4.93(a) allows any interested person to petition for the approval of a grape variety name.

Evidence required for approval – 27 CFR 4.93(a) provides that the petition should provide evidence of the following:

that the new grape variety is accepted;
that the name for identifying the grape variety is valid;
that the variety is used or will be used in winemaking; and
that the variety is grown and used in the United States.
Documentation that provides the required evidence – Under § 4.93(b), the documentation submitted with the petition may include:

a reference to the publication of the name of the variety in a scientific or professional journal of horticulture or a published report by a professional, scientific, or winegrowers' organization;
a reference to a plant patent, if patented; and
information pertaining to the commercial potential of the variety, such as the acreage planted and its location or market studies.
Eligibility restrictions – Section 4.93 also places certain eligibility restrictions on the approval of grape variety names. As stated in § 4.93(c), we will not approve a name:

if the name has previously been used for a different grape variety;
if the name contains a term or name found to be misleading under 27 CFR 4.39; or
if the name contains the term "Riesling".
Response to the petitioner – We will respond to you in writing to let you know if we have approved or denied your request. If we approve the grape variety name, you will receive an administrative approval. The approval letter will advise you that:

we will approve Certificates of Label Approval (COLAs) for labels using the grape variety name;
the approval is valid for labels used in the U.S. market and does not imply that the grape variety name is acceptable for use in other countries;
we will propose rulemaking to add the grape variety name to the list of approved grape variety names in § 4.91 ; and
any final rulemaking action will supersede the administrative approval of the grape variety name.
If we do not approve the grape variety name, the letter will provide a reason(s) why we denied the name.

Return to top

Rulemaking to add a grape name to the list in 27 CFR 4.91
Administratively approved grape names – After we have approved one or more grape variety names, we will publish a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register proposing to add the approved grape variety name(s) to the list in § 4.91. This notice gives the public a chance to comment on whether the administratively approved grape variety name should be recognized as an approved grape variety name.

If we receive a comment(s) or other information that demonstrates a final approval is inappropriate, we may decide not to give final approval for that grape variety name and we will not add it to the list in our regulations. Our final rulemaking action will replace or cancel the administrative approval.

Grape names we did not administratively approve – In the notice of proposed rulemaking, we may also ask for public comment on grape variety names requested in a petition that we denied. If we receive public comments that provide sufficient evidence that the grape variety name should be approved, we may add the name to the list of approved grape variety names in § 4.91.

Return to top

Currently approved Grape Variety Names
List of approved grape names in the Regulations –This list shows the grape names we approved as type designations for American wine. See 27 CFR 4.91.

Please note that this list does not apply to imported wines. An imported wine may be designated with a grape variety name if the producing country has approved that name for use on wines sold for consumption within that country.

Grape names administratively approved pending TTB's next rulemaking
We have administratively approved the following grape names:

Albillo Mayor
Alexander
Ambulo Blanc
Amigne
Arandell
Arinarnoa
Aromella 
Arvine
Assyrtiko 
Baga
Bianchetta Trevigiana 
Black Spanish 
Bluebell
Bourboulenc 
Brachetto
By George
Cabernet Dorsa 
Cabernet Volos 
Caladoc
Caminante Blanc
Camminare Noir
Cannonau
Caprettone
Carignano
Carricante
Catarratto
Chisago
Ciliegiolo
Cinsault
Clarion
Coda di Volpe
Colorino
Courbu Blanc
Crimson Pearl 
Diana
Dobricic
Enchantment
Errante Noir
Esprit
Falanghina
Fleurtai 
Frappato
Frontenac Blanc
Garanoir
Garnacha Roja
Geneva Red
Godello
Golubok
Gouais Blanc
Greco
Greco Bianco
Grenache Gris
Gros Manseng
Humagne Rouge
Itasca 
Jacquez
Jupiter
King of the North
Koshu
L'Acadie Blanc 
Lambrusca di Alessandria
Lomanto
Loureiro
Macabeo
Madeleine Angevine 
Madeleine Sylvaner
Marquis
Marselan
Mavron	
Mencia 
Merlot Kanthus 
Moschofilero 
Mourtaou
Muscardin
Mustang
Nerello Mascalese
Opportunity
Pallagrello Bianco
Parellada
Paseante Noir
Pecorino
Petite Pearl
Picardan
Pinot Bianco
Pinot Nero
Plymouth
Poulsard
Prieto Picudo 
Regent 
Ribolla Gialla
Rieslaner
Riverbank
Roditis
Rose of Peru
Rossese
Ruche
San Marco
Saperavi
Sauvignon Kretos
Sauvignon Rytos
Savagnin
Savagnin Blanc
Schiava Grossa 
Schioppettino
Schönburger
Sheridan
Somerset Seedless 
Soreli 
Southern Cross
Terret Noir
Thiakon
Tibouren
Tinta Amarela
Tinta Cao
Tinta Roriz
Torrontés Riojano
Touriga Nacional
Treixadura
Trentina
Trincadeira
Vaccarèse
Valjohn
Verdejo
Verdicchio
Vranac
Xarel·lo 
Xynisteri

 

 

 

 

 

 


